---
sermon-title: Proverbs 11
google-drive-id: 1MQMVWVj5skiv3V5lKfRIuok3WSXoXfbf
start-time-seconds: 0
day-part: Evening
tags: [wednesday-evening proverbs]
preacher: Zack Warren
layout: default
---

# {{ page.sermon-title }}

##### {{ page.date | date: "%A, %B %-d, %Y" }} {{ page.day-part }} Service

{% if page.start-time-seconds >= 1 %}
{% capture starts-at-time %}
{{ page.start-time-seconds | divided_by: 60 }}:{{ page.start-time-seconds | modulo: 60 }}
{% endcapture %}

{% include sermon-starts-at.md starts-at=starts-at-time %}
{% endif %}

{% capture video-id %}
{{ page.google-drive-id }}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture start-time %}
{{ page.start-time-seconds }}
{% endcapture %}

{% include google-drive-audio.md drive-id=video-id start-time=start-time %}

Proverbs 11:1-31

## 1

Fair dealings. God delights in people dealing justly with others. Dealing justly might put you at a disadvantage or hurt, but it is still the best way.

## 2

Pride leads to shame. Shame has kept many people from doing right: they've done something in the past, so now they won't come around church people because they are ashamed. Don't ever be that person: let go of your pride.

Lowly is not a measure of what or who you are, just like proud isn't. There are extremely proud people who live in the gutter, just like there are who live in mansions. You can be lowly no matter what you have.

## 3

Integrity is a guide.

## 4

If you do wicked things to gain money, there will come a day when you will pay.

## 5

Righteousness directs. See vs 3.

Wickedness causes to fall.

## 6

Righteousness delivers. See vs 5.

## 9

Your hypocrisy can destroy those around you. Make sure your profession and your walk go together.

Knowledge delivers: knowledge of the holy (Proverbs 9:10), witty inventions (Proverbs 8:12). Proverbs 1:7; 2:6

## 12

Two ideas here: despising in your heart and despising them out loud.
1. Don't despise your neighbor.
2. If you do despise your neighbor, if you have any understanding you'll hold your tongue.

## 13

Revealing secrets is spreading them around.

The idea here is not that we cover up flagrant sin, especially that which is unrepented of and ongoing (think of various abuse scandals within churches).

The idea is if someone messes up, you don't need to tell everyone about it.

## 14

It is wise to seek counsel from wise men.

## 15

It is amazing how many people co-sign loans for people they hardly know.

## 16

Gracious in speech, mannerisms, comportment, attitude, dress. See Proverbs 31.

Strong in character, muscle, emotionally, mentally.

## 17

Mercy is not just good for those who receive it, but also for those who give it.

## 18

Righteousness is sown like seeds. You reap what you sow. Galatians 6:7-9

See vs 19.

## 20

Froward - turned or looking from; not willing to yield or comply with what is required.

Froward is the opposite of toward.

Is your heart leaning toward God or froward?

## 21

See Psalm 2.

People have always imagined that if they just get enough of them together they'll be able to overthrow God.

## 22

Fair means beautiful.

Discretion - that discernment which enables a person to judge critically of what is correct and proper, united with caution;

## 23

What are your desires? Are they only good? See Philippians 4:8.

See vs 27.

## 24

Stinginess.

You can also apply this to spreading the word of God.

See vs 25, 26.

## 25

"Liberal" here is not a political stance, it has to do with being a giving person, generous.

## 26

This person wants to hoard rather than sell.

Notice that they are not required to give it away: they sell it. Selling it for gouging prices is no good either.

## 28

Where is your trust? Riches can fly away. Proverbs 23:5

Would you be just as good a Christian if your money was gone tomorrow?

## 30

See vs 19.

He that winneth souls is wise.