---
sermon-title: Proverbs 8
google-drive-id: 1HwpoH0SQDm0PUXnmNrnF21vfIn6aX8Cg
start-time-seconds: 0
day-part: Evening
tags: [wednesday-evening proverbs]
preacher: James Coffman
layout: default
---

### {{ page.date | date: "%A, %B %-d, %Y" }} {{ page.day-part }} Service

{% if page.start-time-seconds >= 1 %}
{% capture starts-at-time %}
{{ page.start-time-seconds | divided_by: 60 }}:{{ page.start-time-seconds | modulo: 60 }}
{% endcapture %}

{% include sermon-starts-at.md starts-at=starts-at-time %}
{% endif %}

{% capture video-id %}
{{ page.google-drive-id }}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture start-time %}
{{ page.start-time-seconds }}
{% endcapture %}

{% include google-drive-audio.md drive-id=video-id start-time=start-time %}

***

# {{ page.sermon-title }}

- Proverbs 8:1 - Wisdom cries out. It wants to be heard and tries to be heard.

- Proverbs 8:2-3 - Up high, by the pathways, at gates, at the entry of the city, at every door.

- Proverbs 8:4-5 - Wisdom cries to you, it wants you to hear and understand. Notice the heart is involved.

- Proverbs 8:6-8 - It will give you excellent things, right things, and truth, with no wickedness mixed in.

- Proverbs 8:9 - Wisdom isn't hard to understand. It is sometimes hard to accept.

- Proverbs 8:10-11 - It is better to get wisdom than all the money you could desire.

- Proverbs 8:12 - Wisdom dwells with prudence. [Definition of Prudence](https://webstersdictionary1828.com/Dictionary/prudence)

- Proverbs 8:13 - Fearing God involves hating some things.

- Proverbs 8:17 - Seek early and you'll find.

- Proverbs 8:18-21 - It's fruit is better than money. It leads toward right.

- Proverbs 8:22 - Here through the end of the chapter we find a description of wisdom that matches Jesus Christ: He is wisdom personified.

    - You'll find some great spiritual truths in Proverbs 8:31-36 if you read it as Jesus speaking.

    - Proverbs 8:31 - Jesus' delight is with the sons of men.

    - Proverbs 8:32 - Blessed are those who keep His ways.

    - Proverbs 8:34 - Blessed are those who hear Him. Do you watch daily at His gates and the posts of His doors to hear from Him?

    - Proverbs 8:35 - The Gospel in the Old Testament. Find Him, find life. You also obtain favor of the Lord.

    - Proverbs 8:36 - If you call Him a liar you damn yourself.
    
        - Also notice that people who hate Jesus Christ use imagery involving death (skulls, bones, etc.). Those that hate Him love death.