---
sermon-title: Angels 1
google-drive-id: 1FKIlVMhsRXdlhRQwQssZfXuuYvjWOIGz
start-time-seconds: 0
day-part: Evening
tags: sunday-evening angels
preacher: James Coffman
layout: default
---

##### {{ page.date | date: "%A, %B %-d, %Y" }} {{ page.day-part }} Service

{% if page.start-time-seconds >= 1 %}
{% capture starts-at-time %}
{{ page.start-time-seconds | divided_by: 60 }}:{{ page.start-time-seconds | modulo: 60 }}
{% endcapture %}

{% include sermon-starts-at.md starts-at=starts-at-time %}
{% endif %}

{% capture video-id %}
{{ page.google-drive-id }}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture start-time %}
{{ page.start-time-seconds }}
{% endcapture %}

{% include google-drive-audio.md drive-id=video-id start-time=start-time %}

***

# {{ page.sermon-title }}

The study of angels is called angelology.

In the King James Bible "angel" occurs 194 times and "angels" occurs 92 times.

Angels are not always messengers. The most general term that will fit every time you find angels in the Bible would be "an appearance."

## Existence of Angels

- Genesis 16:7-11
    - "The angel of the LORD" is what is called a "theophany," which is an appearance of Jesus Christ in the Old Testament.
- Genesis 18:1-3
    - There is no occurrence of a female angel in the Bible.
    - There is no occurrence of an angel with wings in the Bible.
- Genesis 24:7, 40
- Judges 13:3, 21-22
- Acts 12:23
- Zechariah 12:8
- Galatians 4:14
- Revelation 14:6
- Revelation 21:17

### The Angel of the Lord

Tetragrammaton - the name of God, translated "LORD" (all caps).

- Exodus 3:14
- Exodus 6:3
- Acts 7:30-38
- Judges 13:21-22

### Angels are Spirit Beings

They were created by God.

- Hebrews 1:13-14
- Psalm 104:4
- Acts 12:7 - an angel can walk into a locked prison
- Acts 5:19
- Judges 13:19-20
- Daniel 10:12-13

### Angels are More Wise and Stronger Than Men

- Psalm 103:20
- 2 Samuel 14:20
- 2 Kings 19:35
- 2 Samuel 24:15-16
- Matthew 28:2-4
- Revelation 20:1-3
