Now is a trying time for everyone. Between anxieties around spreading the Corona virus, dealing with businesses closing (or not closing), braving grocery store apocalypse, treating sickness (Corona or otherwise), and making ends meet, everyone has a lot to take care of at the moment. Truly, "__sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.__" [Matthew 6:34](https://av1611.com/kjbp/kjv-bible-text/Mt-6.html?vhl=34). Hopefully this finds you and your family well. Whether you are a healthcare worker on the frontlines, a driver delivering us food (tip your drivers!), a grocery store employee keeping the shelves stocked, or someone just doing your best to stay isolated, we are very thankful for everyone doing their part. 

In times like these, it can be hard to see through the clouds (both literally and figuratively), but then, sometimes it takes something of this magnitude to help us see what is really important. The things that make life a joy aren't things, they're the people that God places around us that we love and that love us. For those that have loved ones near, remember to spend some of this time appreciating them. For those that don't have someone (and even those that do), know that Jesus cares and that He is near.

Many go through dark times (whether because of the virus or not) and deal with feeling isolated. Please know that Jesus cares for you. He is nearby and wants to help. "__Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you__" [James 4:8](https://av1611.com/kjbp/kjv-bible-text/Jas-4.html?vhl=8). "__Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light__" [Matthew 11:28-30](https://av1611.com/kjbp/kjv-bible-text/Mt-11.html?vhl=28-30).

If there is some way that our church can help you, please contact us and let us know.

[Blessed Hope Baptist Church](https://blessedhopelexington.com/)